paleolithic

The Paleolithic Era (also known as the Stone Age) started from the first emergence of humans and ended about 3,000 B.C.E. when civilizations started to create
written languages. During this period Humans began to develop stone tools, and mostly roamed in packs as nomads hunting and gathering food as they went. This
was also the time when humans began to travel all across the world, originating in Africa and spreading from there. Much of what is known of this period is
from archeological finds since there was not written history. The emergence of civilizations brought on the development of better techniques to forge metal
tools and weaponry, thus ending the utility of Stone tools and ushering the beginning of Ancient History, the Bronze Age.

Ancient history
The Ancient History period begins with the emergence of the first civilizations. This era includes the rise and fall of the Ancient Egyptians, the Roman
Empire, and the Shang Dynasty. This was the first time in human history when humans no longer had the need to travel and instead lived in one place, learned
trades. Christianity and, arguably, Islam was established during this period of humanity. This period has been considered to be a foundation of our civilization
today. Historians have assigned the fall of the Roman empire, around 476 C.E., to mark the rough end of this period.

Post Classical
The Post-Classical period is known by different names in different continents. In Europe, this period brought upon the Middle Ages, which brought upon the Black
Plague and the death of 30% of Europe's population. During this time Buddhism also experience rapid spreading throughout much of China and many parts of Asia.
This period saw much of the expansion of the major world religions through much parts of Europe and the Middle East. The spread of these religions also saw the
beginning of the Crusades. The end of this period is arguable considered to be the beginning of the Renaissance which changed the whole world.

The Renaissance
Beginning in Florence, Italy, the Renaissance was the rediscovery of classical thought. This period is important because it rejuvenated the sciences and arts,
reshaping Europe's cultural outlook back to a humanist view of the world. The new ideologies are considered essential to our contemporary society.

The Age of Discovery
This period is considered to start around the sailing of Christopher Columbus in 1492 and his discovery of the Americas. This all began due to the typical land
trading routes becoming blocked. Explorers were then tasked to find a way to India that went West, which led to the misconception when arriving to the Americas
that the natives were Indians. This launched a massive exploration boom and began the period of colonialism and the major European Empires flourished.

Colonialism
This was the beginning of massive expansions. The phrase "the empire on which the sun never sets" was first used during this period as a reference to the Spanish
Empire. During this time, much of the world was under European rule. The beginnings of the United States, Mexico, India and  much of South America.

The Age of revolution
This period began with the end of the large European empires as they existed. The American Revolution , the French Revolution, and the Latin American Revolutions are
just some of the few that happened within this period. There was also a technological revolution known as the Industrial Revolution which literally turned life around.
Population boomed, industry grew, and the world urbanized.

The Machine Age
This period was marked with war. Nationalism and imperialism led to the start of the World Wars. Happening after the Industrial Revolution countries had weaponry like
the world had never seen. The world would never be the same once we gained the ability to mass produce machines. The first planes started to pop up along with the
beginnings of the automotive industry revolutionized the way we moved and the world became "smaller".

The Atomic Age
The Atomic Age was marked by the invention of weapons of mass destruction. The Fat Man, one of the atomic bombs used during this period can be seen as the background.
The world was on edge throughout this period; the Cold War made things seem like they could end at any moment. The fear of nuclear death was not the only problem but
the constant struggle between Capitalism and Communism led the world to the brink of war and created the world we live in now.

Now.
In our present day we are living in a world immersed in technology and advances that for the majority of human history has never existed. We as a species are growing
faster than ever and in fact we have reached an expansion that is completely unprecedented. This technology we have today has made the world ever smaller. Despite this
it still seems as if though we are ever farther away. With the recent rise in nationalism and ignorance of the world around us, recent news has put us at 2 minutes before
the strike of midnight - the end of the human race.

end.

This is the end of humanity as we know it. We won't know what does it until it comes, but I hope - we hope - that this time will not come soon. The end of Humanity will
leave behind the entire idea of us of who we are and who we could have been. The end.
